docs: add detailed instructions for setting up external root CA (#12393)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/ca/vault.mdx

| `CAPath`, <br/>`ca_path` | Specifies a path to a folder containing CA certificates to be used for Vault communication. If unspecified, the default system CA bundle is used (refer to the documentation for your OS and version). | String | Optional |
| `CertFile`, <br/>`cert_file` | Specifies the path to the certificate used for Vault communication. | String | Required when `KeyFile`, `key_file` is configured  |
| `KeyFile`, <br/>`key_file` | Specifies the path to the private key used for Vault communication. | String | Required when `CertFile`, `cert_file` is configured. |
| `TLSServerName`, <br/>`tls_server_name` | Specifies the SNI host when connecting to Vault via TLS. | String | Optional |
| `TLSSkipVerify`, <br/>`tls_skip_verify` | Enables SSL peer validation enforcement. Default is `false`. | Boolean | Optional |
| `Namespace`, <br/>`namespace` | Specifies the Vault namespace that the `Token` and PKI certificates are a part of. Requries Vault Enterprise (see [Namespaces](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/enterprise/namespaces) for additional information). | String | Optional | 

> 

Reviewer: Yeah, the construct you called out was what I was trying to get away from. I can see how the term "API Key" could be confusing. I would still like to keep them in the same column to reinforce the idea that the keywords perform the same function. How about "Parameter (API, Agent)"? Or just "API, Agent"? "Resource, Agent"?  I have such a love/hate relationship with md tables.

> 

Reviewer 2: The API takes a JSON object as input. In JSON, the keys of an object are referred to as a field.

Would it make sense to break these into two separate columns with the following headings?

| Configuration parameter | API field | Description | Type | Required |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `Address` |  `address` | Specifies the address of the Vault server. | String | Yes |

### Auth Methods

Auth methods are components in Vault that perform authentication. They are responsible for assigning identity and a set of policies to a user. See [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for information about configuring individual auth methods in Vault.

If auth method is provided, Consul will obtain a new token from Vault when the token can no longer be renewed. 

> Specify following parameters to define an `AuthMethod` / `auth_method` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specify the following parameters to define an `AuthMethod` / `auth_method` object.
```

| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Type`, <br/>`type` | Specifies the type of Vault auth method.| String | None |
| `MountPath`, <br/>`mount_path` | Specifies the mount path of the auth method. | String | `<AuthMethod.Type>` | 
| `Params`, <br/>`params` | Specifies the configuration parameters for the auth method. See [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for information on how to configure the auth method you wish to use. <br/>If the Kubernetes auth method is specified, Consul reads the service account token from the default mount path `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` if the `jwt` parameter is not provided. | Map | `nil` |  

@include 'http_api_connect_ca_common_options.mdx'

## Root and Intermediate PKI Paths

The Vault CA provider uses two separately-configured paths with the [PKI secrets engines](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/pki) for managing Connect certificates.

### Root PKI Paths

The `RootPKIPath`, `root_pki_path` parameter specifies the PKI path to the root certificate. 
Consul uses the root certificate to sign an intermediate certificate for each Consul datacenter, including the primary datacenter. 

> When WAN Federation is enabled, each secondary datacenter must use the same Vault cluster and share the same `root_pki_path` with the primary datacenter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When WAN Federation is enabled, ensuing datacenters must be configured to use the same Vault cluster and share the same `root_pki_path` as the primary datacenter.
```

If the path does not exist, Consul will mount a new PKI secrets engine at the specified path with the `RootCertTTL` value as the root certificate's TTL. 

> Consul never modifies data within the root PKI path after the path has been mounted and initialized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consul does not modify data within the root PKI path after the path has been mounted and initialized.
```

#### Root Certificate Expiration

If the `RootCertTTL` is not set, a [`max_lease_ttl`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/system/mounts#max_lease_ttl) of 87600 hours, or 10 years is applied by default. The root certificate expires at the end of the specified period. 

#### Intermediate Certificate as the Primary CA

To use an intermediate certificate as the primary CA in Consul, initialize the `RootPKIPath` in Vault with a PEM bundle. 
The first certificate in the bundle must be the intermediate certificate that Consul will use as the primary CA. 
The last certificate in the bundle must be a root certificate. 

The bundle must contain a valid chain where each certificate is followed by the certificate that authorized it. See [using an external root CA](#using-an-external-root-ca) for instructions.

### Intermediate PKI Path

The [`IntermediatePKIPath` (`intermediate_pki_path`)](#intermediatepkipath) is
the PKI path used for storing the intermediate CA that was signed by the root certificate.

> The intermediate is used to sign all leaf certificates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The intermediate certificate is used to sign all subsequent leaf certificates.
```

Consul will periodically generate new intermediates before the existing certificate
expires. Therefore, Consul requires write access to this path. This path is managed
entirely by Consul, it should not be mounted or initialized.

> If the intermediate PKI path does not exist, Consul will attempt to mount and initialize it. This requires additional privileges by the Vault token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the intermediate PKI path does not exist, Consul will attempt to mount and initialize it. This requires [additional privileges](#consul-managed-pki-paths) by the Vault token.
```

### Using an External Root CA

To use an external root CA with the Vault provider, you must initialize the
`RootPKIPath` before configuring Consul. The following steps describe how to initialize the path:

> 1. Enable the PKI secrets engine at the path (`connect_root`) that will be used as
>    `RootPKIPath`. Optionally you may also tune the path using `vault secrets tune`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enable the PKI secrets engine at the path (`connect_root`) that will be used as
   `RootPKIPath` in the Connect CA configuration. Optionally you may also tune the path using `vault secrets tune`.
```

>    `RootPKIPath`. Optionally you may also tune the path using `vault secrets tune`.

Reviewer 2: Tune apparently allows customizing details of the PKI path. https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/secrets/tune

   ```shell-session
   $ vault secrets enable -path=connect_root pki
   ```

1. Create a [private certificate and a certificate signing request (CSR) in Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki#generate-intermediate).

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write connect_root/intermediate/generate/internal
   ```

1. Use the external root CA to sign the CSR. The exact steps depend on where the root 
CA is stored.  If you are using vault to store the root CA use

> [sign-intermediate](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki#sign-intermediate).

Reviewer 2: This enhancement assumes that the external root CA is stored in a location that is completely external to Consul or Vault, such as protected in an HSM. The specifics of signing keys from this system will vary based on the customer's environment.

1. Create a pem bundle by concatenating the signed intermediate and the root CA that
   signed it.

   ```shell-session
   $ cat signed-intermediate.pem root-ca.pem > bundle.pem
   ```

> 1. Write the bundle.pem to the `RootPKIPath` with
> [`set-signed`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki#set-signed-intermediate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write the `bundle.pem` to the `RootPKIPath` with
[`set-signed`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki#set-signed-intermediate).

```shell-session
vault write connect_root/intermediate/set-signed certificate=@bundle.pem
```
```
